

https://www.dropbox.com/sh/wvs82cicbr9ig9h/AAD_oibd6Ncth6xNYJoYG77Va/PDF?dl=0&subfolder_nav_tracking=1


char fears/avatarsonas

jake: Stranger
rachel: buried
tobias: web
aximili: eye
marco: desolation
cassie: hunt, heart (identity themes)


1 Jake, (lizard morph cover) , learns about vice principal and yeerk pools. tobias trapped in hawk morph
2 Rachel, (cat morph cover), captured by vice principal, lied to her friends
3 Tobias, (human to hawk cover), everyone turns into fish, get sucked into a yeerk ship and trapped, tobias lasers them out with a space gun in his claws
4 Cassie, (dolphin morph cover), cassie (and tobias) hear weird cries for help coming from the ocean, find the andalite who gave them morphing powers' little brother at the bottom of the sea and recruit him
5 Marco, (gorilla morph cover), the ant horror sequence. he finds out his mom is Visser1 here and not dead, adn i don't remember how. marco describes andalites as "horses but with small arms where the neck should be" which was so dumb i found http://andalitetruth.org/
6 Jake (fly morph cover), he makes the decesion to boil helpless yeerks alive as a distraction which is definitely not foreshadowing for anything, then gets taken over by a yeerk and lives out a nightmare as his friends starve the yeerk out of him slowly and painfully
7 Rachel (grizzly bear), rachels dad offer to take her to another city, the ellimist shows up and offers to take her and her family to another planet (since humanity is doomed), "proves" it by taking them to the future where they meet a Controller Adult Rachel, instead it was a plot by teh ellimist to reveal an important tactical yeerk secret
8 Ax (human morph), ax throws human tech ahead a centruy on accident, when he tries to fix it a yeerk traiter tells him where to find visser3 in a vunerable state, turns into a rattlesnake and tries to assasinate visser 3, but visser 3 has abandoned his host, Alloran, who begs ax to kill him, and he can not bring himself to
9 Cassie (wolf morph), there are zero secrets. she raises a skunk family and turns into termites in order to prevent yeerks from being allowed to destroy the forest (to flush out the "andalite bandits"). struggles with whether she had the right to kill the termite queen to save herself and her friends
10 Marco (wolf spider morph), disocvers an old friend is a robot dog with a hologram of a person on. they helped build the pyramids (as works, not architects or engineers), their masters were dog people pacifists who all died out but their "essence" was placed into wolves to become dogs. marco helps them recover their own source code or something so they can hack themselves to no longer be obligate pacificsts. His friend, Erek, does something horrific, then hacks himself to be a pacifist again and is traumatized. fucked up even by animorphs standards.
11 Jake (jaguar morph), oh, i forgot that this was a REAL book and not a fever dream or a megamorph. jake keeps getting flashes of a jungle, bullshit techno babble sends everyone slightly back in time and to the Amazon Rain forest, Jake gets everyone killed, goes back to the future to redo the decision that lead here, has to live with the knowledge of his own failure forever while no one else remembers
12 Rachel (crocodile morph), turns out you can be allergic to dna. rachel starts uncontrollably morphing any time she has strong emotions , the yeerks try to enslave her celebrity crush, so she morphs a lot. she lies to her team that the problem is resolved so she can keep fighting (just like the second book), chaos ensues
13 Tobias (hawk to human, masterful gigglesnort, its DIFFERNT than book 3), tobias keeps being in the right place at the right time to just happen to save the only two free hork bajir in the entire galaxy AND lead them to safety. its the elmist meddling again, who promises to give tobias his "hearts desire" but cautions him it might not be what he thinks it is. tobias has his morphing ability restored, and he's bitterly upset because he wanted to be human again (even as he acknowledges how fucked up his life as a human was), then elimist sends him back in time to acquire his own dna
14 Cassie (horse) cassie discovers that yeerks are infesting horses in order to infiltrate area 51 to figure out what the humans have of alien tech. turns out its an andalite toilet. its very silly.
15 Marco (shark) turns out yeerks are making sharks smarter so they can fit in their brains in order to send them to a water world to act as shock troops. marcos mom is there and sees him and dispassionately lets him know her host is crying and screaming to see him. fucked up.
16 Jake (rhino) jake finds a chat room online about yeerks, turns out some not-steve jobs is a controller infested by visser 3's twin brother, they get in a stalemate where jake trades rachael and ax's lives in exchange for this douchebags, its heavily implied later he burns the guys house down and kills him personally to comply with the letter of the deal
17 Rachel (bat) they find out instant maple ginger oatmeal drives yeerks mad, and morph moles to dig down to the yeerk pool and get them all addicted to it
18 Ax (mosquito) while in mosquito morph, everyone gets sucked into zspace and picked up by an andalite ship right before a critical battle on the leeran homeworld. they're pivotol in saving the day before getting snapped back to earth
18.5 Megamorphs (dinosaur time bb) they fight ant aliens and tobias is personally responsible for the death of all dinosaurs and also some crab aliens who invented brocolli. lots of shipping.
19 Cassie (butterfly): best book in the series, cassie becomes a voluntary controller, almost gets trapped as a catterpillar, starts the yeerk peace movement
20 Marco (cobra): David gets the morphing cube and becomes an animorph, mission is to save a bunch of world leaders (one of which is already a controller, but they don't know who)
21 Jake (dog): the animorphs fall for a trap trying to protect the president and david betrays them, seemingly killing tobias and doing his damndest to kill jake


https://at.tumblr.com/thejakeformerlyknownasprince/sarifel-corrisafid-ilxhel-zarohk-thaylepo/tok65dl0hrca
this, but especially: 
Any of the Animorphs: hey we saw a thing, you think it’s important
[Later]
Jake: well that was horrible, traumatic, and accomplished very little, but i guess we’re alive so
Animorphs: *unenthusiastic cheer*
[Preview of next book]:
Any of the Animorphs: hey we saw a thing, you think it’s important